hi guys and welcome back to my channel
thank you for joining me and as you can
tell by the title of this video today I
will be teaching you guys how to speak
Trini now a lot of you may know that I
am from the twin island Republic of
Trinidad and Tobago and the Caribbean
and I live on Trinidad and Trini is
simply the shortened form for someone
who is from Trinidad lectionary on
seeing us today is actually my last
follow the internet on us tomorrow I
will be moving to the United Kingdom for
university exciting I have decided that
I will teach you guys something about
you and Dom before I go okay so I have
stepped to the side and next to me there
is now a red white and black box and a
blue box if you read by some black box I
chose those colors because the colors of
China not into being the national colors
it goes on our national flag our red
white and black any top box we would I
am saying is going to a pair or the
sentence or phrase I'm saying is going
to pay and then if there is a
translation or a proper way to see it in
standard English that will appear in the
blue box so the first one I'm going to
tell you guys about is the word Marco
and a Marco is basically a person who is
a gossip or who likes to mind other
people's business second or description
is probably more accurate Trinidadians
are actually kind of famous to be in
Marco's we like to mind everyone's
business and there's a saying that if
you go to Marco Marco properly and
basically what that means is if you want
to mind other people's business so say
I'm sitting down in the living room just
minding my own business and my grandma
and my mom are talking and I'm actually
maka weighing or listening to their
conversation you know you're not
supposed to ask questions so if you want
to Marco don't ask questions because you
don't really want people to know that
you're not going I guess a proper term
for that would be an eavesdropper
because I can say is scoops and it's not
much of a saying it's not saying
actually it's more of a sound we make
some people may call it sucking your
teat I think that's what foreigners call
it um base creases are made when you're
you're pissed off at someone or your arm
at someone it's quite disrespectful and
foreign laws mean unnecessary noise
disrespectful if Australian soups soups
--is if it's Trinidadian soup there's
all these chips as are you um they're
they're not very young please with you
our soups can be used you know jokingly
among friends and stuff so it's not
always disrespectful but in most arm
cases if it's done to a figure of
authority authority figure it is
actually disrespectful so in case you
are wondering what for soups sounds like
this is what it is Papa laughs I guess
so that's what a soups is but let's run
an ad in phrase that we have is Skinner
and this is basically when someone is if
you sit down and you have your legs wide
open you see why skin OPSEU though the
next I'm going to tell you is Sakai and
I used to use this term a lot when I was
younger I don't necessarily use it very
much now but this is a term that means
very easy so if a test was easy you
would say this test was Sakai now
another thing that turned audience do is
we shortened words
so where is ending in ing we don't
necessarily pronounce the G at the end
so if I were to take an example writing
I am writing I would say I am writing so
it would end like if you had to write it
you will just write I n oh I have '
another example of how we show us in our
words is if a wave begins in th we
usually change thr we pronounce it as a
D though there would become their C
would become T though would become D so
they try not to use one word for the
words or the phrase all of you or all of
you guys and that freezes audio it's
about PL as you can see al why you each
or al ly you each another phrase that we
have our own phrase voice or what so if
sentence ends in or what we see our
ewp so come up with a simple sentence so
you guys to see just how our
pronunciation our sentence structure and
our language is a bit different from
standard English American English
British English and whatnot okay so the
sentence which will appear down here is
all of you going to the cinema or what
and journey that would be up there
oh you're going to listen tomorrow now
they are so so so many other turn
Guardian phrases on seeing that I could
talk about three but this video will
just go on and on so if you enjoyed it
be sure to give the thumbs up leave in
the comments below if you would like me
to do another one of these and I
definitely will because it's interesting
situation our culture and also if you
know any terrain audiences be sure to
comment down below on I will look at
them take a look take a read and respond
the a guy has it for this week's video
thank you for watching remember to give
it a thumbs up leave a comment below and
subscribe and I will catch you all next
week